[IMP] Fleet: Update models (#13207)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/fleet/models.rst

======================
Models & manufacturers
======================

Odoo's **Fleet** app categorizes each vehicle by *manufacturer* and *model* (e.g. `BMW`, `X2`).
Before the vehicle can be added to the Odoo database, its :ref:`manufacturer <fleet/manufacturers>`
and a :ref:`model <fleet/add-model>` records must already exist in the database.

.. _fleet/manufacturers:

Manufacturers
=============

Odoo's **Fleet** app comes preconfigured with sixty-six commonly used car and bicycle manufacturers
in the database, along with their logos. To view the pre-loaded manufacturers, go to
:menuselection:`Fleet app --> Configuration --> Manufacturers`.

The default filter, :guilabel:`With Models`, displays only manufacturers that already have vehicle
models. Remove the default filter to view *all* manufacturers.

> Manufacturers re listed alphabetically, and each card shows how many specific :ref:`models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manufacturers are listed alphabetically, and each card shows how many specific :ref:`models
```

.. image:: models/manufacturer.png
   :alt: Manufacturer card with the amount of models listed.

.. _fleet/add-manufacturers:

Add a manufacturer
------------------

To add a new manufacturer to the database, click :guilabel:`New` in the upper-left corner, to open a
blank manufacturers form. Type the name of the manufacturer in the :guilabel:`Name` field, and
select an image to upload for the logo.

.. _fleet/models:

Models
======

When adding a vehicle to the fleet, specify the vehicle model to maintain updated records, which
keeps track of specific details, like maintenance schedules and parts compatibility.

Unlike :ref:`manufacturers <fleet/manufacturers>`, models do **not** come preconfigured in the
**Fleet** app. When a new vehicle model joins the fleet, the model (and, if necessary, the
manufacturer) **must** be :ref:`added to the database <fleet/add-model>`.

.. _fleet/add-model:

Add a model
-----------

To add a new vehicle model, navigate to :menuselection:`Fleet app --> Configuration --> Models`.
Click :guilabel:`New` in the upper-left corner, and enter the following information on the new model
form.

.. note::

>    Depending on the installed localization, some fields or sections may not appear.

Reviewer: May be good to add a doc reference  here :)
```suggestion
   Depending on the installed :doc:`localization <../../finance/fiscal_localizations>`, some
   fields or sections may not appear.
```

======================
Models & manufacturers
======================

Odoo's **Fleet** app organizes company vehicles by who made the vehicle (the *manufacturer*), and

> the specific type of vehicle (the *model*). For example, a `BMW X2` has a manufacturer of `BMW`, and

Reviewer 2: I know you are referring to the way it is listed out in Odoo, but is there another way to phrase this? ('Has a manufacturer' sounds off)

a model of `X2`.

Every vehicle must have both a :ref:`manufacturer <fleet/manufacturers>` and a :ref:`model
<fleet/add-model>` associated with it, to be added to the database.

.. _fleet/manufacturers:

Manufacturers
=============

Odoo's **Fleet** app comes preconfigured with sixty-six commonly used car and bicycle manufacturers
in the database, along with their logos. To view the pre-loaded manufacturers, go to
:menuselection:`Fleet app --> Configuration --> Manufacturers`.

The filter :guilabel:`With Models` is active by default, and displays only manufacturers with models
configured in the database. Remove the default filter to view *all* manufacturers.

The manufacturers appear in an alphabetical list. Each manufacturer's card lists how many specific
:ref:`models <fleet/models>` are configured for each particular manufacturer.

.. image:: models/manufacturer.png
   :alt: Manufacturer card with the amount of models listed.

Add a manufacturer
------------------

> To add a new manufacturer to the database, click :guilabel:`New` in the upper-left corner, and a
> manufacturers form will load. Only two pieces of information are needed, the :guilabel:`Name` of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a new manufacturer to the database, click :guilabel:`New` in the upper-left corner, to open a blank manufacturer's form. Only two pieces of information are needed, the :guilabel:`Name` of the
```

manufacturer, and the logo. Type the name of the manufacturer in the :guilabel:`Name` field, and
select an image to upload for the logo.

.. _fleet/models:

Models
======

When adding a vehicle to the fleet, specify the vehicle model to maintain updated records, which
keeps track of specific details, like maintenance schedules and parts compatibility.

> Unlike :ref:`manufacturers <fleet/manufacturers>` , no models are preconfigured in the **Fleet**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike :ref:`manufacturers <fleet/manufacturers>`, no models are preconfigured in the **Fleet**
```

form.

.. note::
   Depending on the installed localization, some fields or sections may not appear.

- :guilabel:`Model name`: enter the model name in the field.
- :guilabel:`Manufacturer`: using the drop-down menu, select the manufacturer. If the manufacturer
  is not configured, type in the manufacturer, and click :guilabel:`Create "(manufacturer)"` or
  :guilabel:`Create and edit..`. When the manufacturer is selected, the logo automatically loads in
  the image box in the upper-right corner, if a logo is configured on the manufacturer form.
- :guilabel:`Vehicle Type`: using the drop-down menu, select one of two preconfigured vehicle types,
  either :guilabel:`Car` or :guilabel:`Bike`. The vehicle types are hardcoded in Odoo, and are
  integrated with the **Payroll** application, since vehicles can be part of an employee's benefits.
  Adding additional vehicle types is *not* possible, as it affects payroll.
- :guilabel:`Category`: using the drop-down menu, select a :ref:`category <fleet/categories>` for
  the vehicle. To create a new category, type in the category and then click :guilabel:`Create "(new

>   category)"`.

Reviewer 2: Full sentences,  the word after ':' should be capitalized.

  (Depreciated)` and the :guilabel:`C02 fee` fields. It also depreciated over time.

Engine
~~~~~~

- :guilabel:`Fuel Type`: Using the drop-down menu, select the type of fuel the vehicle uses. The
  default options are :guilabel:`Diesel`, :guilabel:`Gasoline`, :guilabel:`Full Hybrid`
  :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Diesel`, :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Gasoline`, :guilabel:`CNG`,
  :guilabel:`LPG`, :guilabel:`Hydrogen`, or :guilabel:`Electric`.
- :guilabel:`Range`: Enter the distance the vehicle can travel on one tank of gas, or one battery
  charge, in kilometers.
- :guilabel:`CO2 Emissions`: Enter the average carbon dioxide emissions the vehicle produces in
  grams per kilometer (g/km). This information is provided by the car manufacturer.
- :guilabel:`CO2 Standard`: Enter the standard amount of carbon dioxide in grams per kilometer
  (g/km) for a similar-sized vehicle.
- :guilabel:`Transmission`: Using the drop-down menu, select the type of transmission, either
  :guilabel:`Manual` or :guilabel:`Automatic`.
- :guilabel:`Power Unit`: Using the drop-down menu, select how the vehicle's power is measured,

>   either in kilowatts.

Author: OMG I forgot to add HORSEPOWER! =D

  :guilabel:`Horsepower` is selected for the :guilabel:`Power` field.
- :guilabel:`Horsepower Taxation`: Enter the amount that is taxed, based on the size of the
  vehicle's engine. This is determined by local taxes and regulations, and varies depending on the
  location. It is recommended to check with the accounting department to ensure this value is
  correct. This field only appears if :guilabel:`Horsepower` is selected for the :guilabel:`Power`
  field.
- :guilabel:`Horsepower Taxation`: Enter the amount of taxes incurred according to the engine
  specifications. The number is dependent on the local tax laws, therefore it is recommended to
  check with the accounting department to ensure the correct taxation amount is entered. This field
  only appears if :guilabel:`Horsepower` is selected for the :guilabel:`Power` field.
- :guilabel:`Tax Deduction`: The percentage that can be deducted from taxes is autopolulated based
  on the localization, and **cannot** be modified. This field only appears for certain
  localizations.

Vendors tab
-----------

Specify the vendors a vehicle can be purchased from in this tab. With proper setup, requests for

> quotations for vehicles can be created through Odoo's **Purchase** app.

Author: AMAZING!

To add a vendor, click :guilabel:`Add` in the upper-right corner. This opens an :guilabel:`Add:
Vendors` pop-up window, with a list of all the vendors currently in the database. Add a vendor by
ticking the checkbox next to the vendor name, then click :guilabel:`Select`. No limitations exist on
the number of vendors that can be added to this list.

If a vendor is *not* already in the database, add a vendor by clicking :guilabel:`New` in the
bottom-left of the :guilabel:`Add: Vendors` pop-up window. In the :guilabel:`Create Vendors` form
that appears, enter the necessary information, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the
vendor, or click :guilabel:`Save & New` to add the current vendor and create another new vendor.

.. image:: models/vendor.png

>    :alt: Vendor form to fill out when adding a new vendor.

Author: I would. but after you click 'New' (if they're not in the database already, which is likely if you are adding a totally new vendor), then the screen says 'Create Vendors' - so I believe this is accurate
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2c5f4dae-02ba-4740-8600-5f21e76b134e)

passenger capacity, cost settings (applicable to the Belgium localization only), and engine
information.

> MODEL

Reviewer 2: I know you are matching the UI, but I think the heading should still be sentence case

Author: OK, I wasn't sure about that- I was making it match the UI thinking that was required, ut sentence case definitely looks better

~~~~~

- :guilabel:`Seats Number`: enter how many passengers the vehicle can accommodate.
- :guilabel:`Doors Number`: enter the number of doors the vehicle has.
- :guilabel:`Model Year`: enter the year the vehicle was manufactured.
- :guilabel:`Trailer Hitch`: tick this checkbox if the vehicle has a trailer hitch installed.

> SALARY

Reviewer 2: Same as above

~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Salary` section **only** appears for Belgian-based companies, and **only** if the

> company has their localization setting set to Belgium. The cost values are all *monthly*, with the

Reviewer 2: I think you can change this to the only if the company has the Belgian localization, unless the company address has an impact this. Also, are there any other localizations that also include this section?

Author: There were NOT at the time of writing this last year, but good point- let me check if any NEW localizations use this. But as of 2024, it was only Belgium

- :guilabel:`Total Cost (Depreciated)`: this value is the combination of the :guilabel:`Cost
  (Depreciated)` and the :guilabel:`C02 fee` fields. It also depreciated over time.

> ENGINE

Reviewer 2: Same as above with headings

~~~~~~

- :guilabel:`Fuel Type`: using the drop-down menu, select the type of fuel the vehicle uses. The
  default options are :guilabel:`Diesel`, :guilabel:`Gasoline`, :guilabel:`Full Hybrid`
  :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Diesel`, :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Gasoline`, :guilabel:`CNG`,
  :guilabel:`LPG`, :guilabel:`Hydrogen`, or :guilabel:`Electric`.
- :guilabel:`Range`: enter the distance the vehicle can travel on one tank of gas, or one battery

>   charge, in kilometers.

Reviewer 2: Full sentences after ':' should be capitalized

- :guilabel:`Horsepower Taxation`: enter the amount that is taxed, based on the size of the
  vehicle's engine. This is determined by local taxes and regulations, and varies depending on the
  location. It is recommended to check with the accounting department to ensure this value is
  correct. This field only appears if :guilabel:`Horsepower` is selected for the :guilabel:`Power`
  field.
- :guilabel:`Horsepower Taxation`: enter the amount of taxes incurred according to the engine
  specifications. The number is dependent on the local tax laws, therefore it is recommended to
  check with the accounting department to ensure the correct taxation amount is entered. This field
  only appears if :guilabel:`Horsepower` is selected for the :guilabel:`Power` field.
- :guilabel:`Tax Deduction`: the percentage that can be deducted from taxes is autopolulated based
  on the localization, and **cannot** be modified. This field only appears for certain
  localizations.

Vendors tab
-----------

Specify the vendors a vehicle can be purchased from in this tab. With proper setup, requests for
quotations for vehicles can be created through Odoo's **Purchase** app.

> To add a vendor, click :guilabel:`Add` in the upper-right corner which opens an :guilabel:`Add:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a vendor, click :guilabel:`Add` in the upper-right corner. This opens an :guilabel:`Add:
```

==============

To best organize a fleet, it is recommended to have vehicle models housed under a specific category,
to better organize the various kinds of vehicles in the fleet. Model categories are set on the

> :ref:`vehicle model form <fleet/add-model>`.

Reviewer 2: I can't directly edit this line, but I think it is repetitive.

Odoo does **not** come with any categories preconfigured; all categories **must** be added.

To view any categories currently set up in the database, navigate to :menuselection:`Fleet app -->
Configuration --> Categories`. All categories are displayed in a list view.

Add a new model category
------------------------

To add a new category, click the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner of the
:guilabel:`Categories` dashboard. A new entry line appears at the bottom of the list. Type in the
new category, then either click :guilabel:`Save`, or click anywhere on the screen, to save the
entry.

To reorganize how the categories appear in the list, click on the :icon:`oi-draggable`
:guilabel:`(draggable)` icon to the left of any desired category name, and drag the line to the
desired position.

The order of the list does *not* affect the database in any way. However, it may be preferable to

> view the vehicle categories in a specific order, for example, by size, or the numbers of passengers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
view the vehicle categories in a specific order, for example, by size, or the number of passengers
```
